hello everybody thanks for having me
today
a little bit injured but it takes more
than a car to stop me from talking to
you maybe a tank okay
so today I want to talk about the micro
printer about my work how everything
started what was my motivation behind 2
valve to build the smallest 3d print in
the world and let's start with my daily
business so my normal work working field
is called two-photon polymerization
it sounds very nerdy it is very early
and well what do you need for for making
this stuff you need a complex laser
system that's so-called femtosecond
laser system which you focus to a very
tiny spot very very very tiny and this
is a very expensive not very durable
laser system and on the other hand you
need a very complex positioning system
we call it a garter and because it's
very heavy and I sold a car this is a
nice name and well you need this system
to move the laser through through a
sample at a very accurate level about
200 nanometers so very accurate and well
what can you do with that well you can
do things that you cannot see with your
eyes so you can print out whatever you
want so you can print out the tower
bridge you can print out I got this
husband so okay but what's what so what
makes that so mind-blowing by you maybe
notice this scale bar and it's 100 micro
microns for the power bridge and 20
microns for the fat man and for
comparison the diameter of a human here
is around 50 microns so this these
objects are like a dust particle or even
smaller so it's hardly you can hardly
see it
and what you can also do is and what we
are also working on is improving the
system improving the residents the
material we use for catching worm or
something else inside the racing we move
the lasers through through the resin if
it's polymerized as we catch up a living
animal here here a special worm and what
we're trying to do or what the next step
would be to make biocompatible polymers
and maybe to write some things inside
your body or inside the body of a worm
or to attach cells to our structures and
so on but ok that's my normal working
field today I want to tell the story
behind the micro print what was my
motivation well everything started at
Monday morning 6:30 okay that's a lie
maybe it was ten o'clock when I went to
my laser lab which is located in your
house plants and flowers of the Wayner
University of Technology and I went in
and I saw that this laser system was
broken and tried to fix that it took me
half a day took me several hours and
then I noticed came there is a major
issue with the pump source I cannot fix
it on myself so we have to call the
service technician and from that point
on I noticed I have time to think so I
thought what to do now maybe start to
write my PhD thesis no no not a good
idea at all so I started saying maybe
write a scientific paper not a good idea
along and then on Saturday after a week
thinking I came up with the idea to
build the smallest 3d micro printer in
the world or the smallest 3d printer in
the world so
so I called my professor and I told him
about hey let's ba let's bout to sing
and I have time is it okay go ahead
build it and so I went to the University
and from that point on I just put
everything out of my brain inside the
computer to make this see a
deconstruction of the whole stuff and
after a few months we had the first test
run with the with the system and it
works brilliant from the first test on
and it worked it had the same resolution
as systems which cost sixty thousand
euros and we only spent 1,500 years for
the system not including my my salary
but that wouldn't add so much on itself
okay and how does this work I brought
you a video where you can see how you
can put in your three-dimensional file
and this really was has been produced by
a friend of mine Junie Veloso and you
can see you have a set stage which moves
up and under the set stage there is a
liquid which gets Soloff ID by the light
and you slice by slice you you create
the model so it's really yeah you really
put it out of the liquid and it just
depends on how how big is your model so
maybe you have 100 slices 1000 or 10000
slices so that's how it works of course
this is a much bigger machine than the
micro printer but it uses more or less
the same principle so that's what I want
to show you and at the end this head
this alien head is attached to the
building platform and when the process
is done you just simply have to break
the head from from the support structure
you need and then everything is ready so
okay but how does the micro frame to
look like well maybe some of you have
already seen this picture
I also brought it to you in person so
I want to kindly introduce you to the 3d
micro printer which looks like this so
it's it's very small so it's really a
desk of mercy and it's really a for
table system and yeah we are really
proud of it actually and and okay you
have to stand little system there are
bigger ones what can you do with that
with a cheap affordable system for
example you can you all know these
hearing aids they have to be produced
individually for each person so this is
a perfect example for using this
technology to create a shell for a
hearing aid and normally you go to the
store they scan your ear they sent the
data to Germany we are email and and
then they print it out with a with thank
you and then they print it out with a
big machine and then when it's ready to
send it back to we Anna
wherever you are we are post and then
they put in the electronic when you have
a micro printer in your store so you can
go to the store they scan your ear they
just press print it the 3d model gets
sliced and you can go for a coffee you
can go to the University whatever you
want and instead of five days you can
have your you shell or your hearing aid
in in one day in just one day and that
is an example of how these tiny little
machines or other cheap 3d printer could
change our everyday life so thank you
very much and yeah start printing
whatever you want whatever you need
you